---
title: Gretchen Holton
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 2
---

> My name is Gretchen Holton and I am Jims daughter-in-law. I know you cant feel the pride and love in my words as I claim that title of daughter in law, but its there. Jim was instantly loved by all who met him, as his good friend Arlene stated &quot; I never met anyone that didn't like Jim Holton&quot; and she is absolutely correct. Jim was liked by all ,loved by many and his time in this world has left it a better place. He was a man of great happiness and humor, you never felt sad when you were around Jim, he made everyone feel comfortable and at ease. I consider myself honored and blessed to have known him for the short 16 years.. He loved his grandchildren dearly and his spirit I know lives in each one of them. He had a great sense of humor and was constantly making me laugh with is play on words and clear observations. He preferred his women with a feisty spirit, just take one look at his wife Margaret and you'll know that to be true. Jim set an example for us all with his unprejudiced nature and his boundless energy, his constant generosity and humble presence. Jim was and shall always be a good soul that was taken far too soon and has left a huge hole in my heart and in this world that will not soon be filled. Father in law of mine, I miss you desperately and never said I loved you enough...Thank you for everything you taught me and ill try my best to pass those wonderful gifts on to you grandchildren so you shall live forever.