---
title: Dennis Hartmann
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 23
---

>Dear Friends, <br /><br />A memorial service will be held for Professor James Reed Holton on Saturday April 3, 2004 at 10am in Kane Hall room 130 on the University of Washington Campus. A reception will follow in the Walker Ames Room of Kane Hall. All Jim's family, friends and colleagues are invited. <br /><br />We expect that the memorial service will take from one to two hours and will consist of brief presentations and impromptu reflections from those in attendance. <br /><br />If you would plan to attend, please RSVP to Connie Ellsbury connie@atmos.washington.edu (206-543-4250), so we know roughly how many to expect. If you would like to make a presentation or say a few words, please also email or call Connie and indicate approximately how long you would like to speak. If you have images that you would like to present with your talk, please put them in the form of a Powerpoint presentation and send them to us at least a week before the event. If you don't do Powerpoint, send us the raw materials and we will try to work them into Powerpoint. If you cannot attend, but would like to have something read or an image shown, please also send those along to me or Connie. <br /><br />We look forward for this opportunity to simultaneously mourn our loss and celebrate Jim's life. <br /><br />Please pass this information on to those you think might want to receive it. If you have any questions, please contact Connie or myself. <br /><br />Best wishes, <br />Dennis Hartmann <br /><br />P.S. <br />Kane Hall, Parking, etc.: <a target="_new" href="http://www.washington.edu/home/campus.html#stats">http://www.washington.edu/home/campus.html#stats</a> <br />Parking is available in the central underground garage which is accessed at 41st Street and 15th Avenue N.E.   