---
title: Arlene Ehrlich 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 28
---
> I live across the street from the Holtons. We moved into our respective homes within 2 weeks of each other about 38 years ago when Eric was about 2 years old. Over these years we have become good neighbors and friends. We 3 have shared many joys and sorrows. In the summer of 1980 I came home from work to find that my home had been burglarized. I called 911 and then I called the Holtons. Jim came over and stayed with me until the police came. The 911 operator had suggested that I get out of the house until the police arrived, just in case the burglars were still here! I told Jim, and said that I was pretty sure no one else was in the house. So we checked the house together, I don't know which of us was more scared, and we stayed in the house, 'cause we could sit down and wait. Together we were very brave and his presence was a great comfort. Several years later, also on a summer's evening, I drove up the street to see fire engines in front of the corner house, i.e., the house next door to mine on the south side. There had been a devastating fire. Jim, seeing what was happening, and realizing I was not home, came over to my wooden deck, my house is brick, and stood on the deck with my garden hose, hosing it and the house so they would not catch fire nor absorb the heat. He, and Margaret,have been most considerate and thoughtful neighbors. As others have noted, Jim had a quick and sharp sense of humor, and we shared many funny stories and many good laughs over the years. Altho he did not suffer fools, his humor was never at any one else's expense. It seems to me that Jim hardly aged over the years, altho the pictures Eric has posted remind me that his hair style did change. He was kind, modest,(Margaret always told me about Jim's honors; he never did), a real gentleman, and seemed to live his life with grace and dignity. We, in the 'hood, miss his jaunty walk, his smile, his gliding into his driveway on his bike, his always enthusiastic &quot;Hello.&quot; To Jim: Thanx for the memories, for your friendship and support, for sharing your consumate humanness. Shalom, (Peace, Goodbye), L'Hitraot, (Until we meet again).