---
title: Michael McIntyre 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 29
---
> I can scarcely add to all the heartfelt tributes above, but as a professional colleague I just want to say that I always regarded Jim as one of those colleagues who make life as a scientist worth living. Jim will be sorely missed not only by his family but by many, many colleagues all over the world. He was a very special and wonderful person, and in countless ways was a great and generous champion for good international science -- as well as having made research contributions of the highest importance himself, almost in spite of his natural and engaging modesty. <br /><br />Among those contributions, which are many, my favourite is the 1968 paper published with Mike Wallace in the Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences volume 25, p.280. It remains one of the most important contributions of all time toward our understanding of the large-scale atmospheric phenomenon we call the &quot;quasi-biennial oscillation&quot;. This phenomenon was a complete mystery at the time, one of the great enigmas of atmospheric science. The paper provided a first, critically important clue as to what was going on; and subsequent developments, to which Jim made several further important contributions, led bit by bit to a great paradigm change in our understanding of large-scale circulations in naturally occurring bodies of fluid including, now, the Sun's interior. <br /><br />I happen to think that practising good science, with its standards of openness, honesty, integrity, and respect for evidence -- and being a champion for good science despite the forces ranged against it -- is one of the most important things anyone can do in today's world. Open science, the power of what the Halloween Documents famously called &quot;massively parallel problem-solving&quot;, first discovered in the Renaissance, will be essential to solving tomorrow's highly complex, combinatorially large problems, including the problem of understanding the Earth's biosphere and life support system as well as the behaviour of complex technologies. Jim's memory, and the example he set, will be a beacon for those who will take up this important work for tomorrow's world. <br />