---
title: Neal Brown 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 36
---
>In the summer of 1959 or 1960 my dad, Kenneth Brown, surprised your dad and me by asking him to work for us in harvest. At that time your dad was very much a city guy who did not have much experience working with mechanical things. Your dad and I visited often with my dad and mom, and my dad really liked your dad. Even though my dad never graduated from high school he was well read and loved to argue current news and politics. My dad and your dad shared a similar sense of sometimes sarcastic but never hurtful humor. <br /><br />I had decided I wanted to drive truck and haul the harvest grain to the warehouse this particular summer rather than drive tractor or punch header riding the combine. My dad elected to drive the tractor that pulled the combine around the field and hired your dad to punch header. Punching header involved a couple things in those days before the self-propelled combines of today where one person can both drive around the field and cut and thresh the grain. Your dad sat high up on the combine near the tractor that pulled it overlooking the 16 foot-long header which stuck out to the right hand side. With something that looks like a steering wheel on an old time sailing ship your dad adjusted the header up and down so that it reliably got all of the grain and a minimum of the staff, or straw that held the head of wheat or barley up in the air. Since the grain was not all perfectly the same height the heads of the grain off the ground varied. At the same time the combine could not handle all the straw so what your dad had to do was adjust the header in height so that all the grain and a minimum of straw was harvested to be threshed inside of the combine. Another equally important job was to keep the combine level from side to side as the tractor pulled it around the often steep hillsides on our farm. Your dad kept the combine level by moving a large lever from its off center position to a position left or right to raise or lower the left side of the combine. The header was almost always on the uphill side as we harvested grain. <br /><br />Your dad quickly learned the job but suffered greatly with allergy reactions to the dust, chaff, and crud that floats up sometimes to overwhelm either the guy punching header or the person driving the tractor. I recall your dad must have used a box of kleenex a day, and that after harvest that year the fields we harvested were littered with used kleenex, which of course disappeared as it disintegrated with the first rains that fall. But your dad did not give up the job. I recall he tried wearing a dust mask, but as was often the case, the dust mask was unbearably hot so only when things got really bad did anyone use one. He wore a long sleeved shirt and kept the sleeves and his collar buttoned up tight to keep the itchy chaff out. <br /><br />My dad paid us $25 per day and room and board and . I don't remember for sure, but I think your dad went back home to his home in Pullman each night. We worked together for about 20 days each year harvesting. During harvest my mom prepared breakfast and dinner and we ate lunch at my aunt Eveline's less than a mile down the road. We shut the combine and tractor down each noon, checked to make sure nothing might catch on fire, and drove in the truck to my aunt Evelines. She put out pails of hot and cool water and we washed in a small basin and threw our wash water onto her flowers. We always had a few minutes before we went inside to eat and often ten or fifteen minutes after lunch where we lay on the grass in the shade outside of my aunts house resting and talking before going back to work. The conversations that summer were always lively with your dad being there. (I remember things like that so well as I write this not, but I have not thought of them in years. Your dad meant more to me than I ever told him.) <br /><br />When my dad died in 1968 your dad wrote me a letter telling me how much having the job punching header that summer turned out to mean to him. He said it gave him a confidence in himself that he had not had before that he really could do almost anything. In 1968 I was both pleased and surprised by your dad's comment. Your dad had always seemed to me to be very capable in everything he took on. He seemed to me to be more academic than mechanical but then his father and the beautiful well kept home he grew up in with two sisters did not give him many opportunities to do things other than academics too. <br /><br />I don't recall your dad's father ever participating in our hiking activities. My dad did in the sense he drove our farm truck loaded with all our back packs and supplies to places where our Boy Scout troop camped at times like spring break. My dad had a roll away bed and a gas lantern in the back of the truck that he slept on, but he was always up early with a pot of coffee for any of us cold campers to come visit with before our day of hiking started. <br />