---
title: Dan Hungate 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 43
---
>I first met Jim in the fall of 1945 when I moved to Pullman, Washington, from Austin, Texas. We spent second grade together at Edison School and we went to the Congregational Church Sunday School. We were in separate schools from third through sixth grade but again in school together from seventh grade through our senior year at Pullman High School. When he went to Harvard, I went to Stanford but we spent the summer after our junior years cycling together on 3 speed bikes around Europe, covering about 2500 miles over 2 &#189; months on a budget of $500 each. One of my favorite pictures of Jim is a posed picture taken on a glacier in the Swiss Alps where he forced a frown to show our displeasure in suffering through ten straight cloudy days during our only time in the Alps. We were in Cambridge, Massachusetts together while I went to law school and Jim got his PhD at MIT. Our paths soon crossed again when we each ended up in Seattle in 1965 after Jim finished a postdoctoral year in Sweden. <br /><br />My friendship with Jim did nothing but get deeper and closer over the years. On our last outing together, a ski trip to Sun Peaks near Kamloops, BC, we spent three days skiing and two days traveling, enjoying each others company. Our early days of friendly competition on the ski slopes were long since over so we could each relax and enjoy the slopes and being outdoors. Our topics of conversation seemed to be never ending, and while we certainly didn't agree on everything, we could easily accept that the other had a different point of view and could sometimes even understand the erroneous basis for that view. When I said goodbye to him on February 9, neither of us had any idea that it would be our last goodbye. I do have the comfort of knowing that Jim knew how much his friendship meant to me. <br /><br />It's easy to understand why Jim and I were friends. We shared many interests; our personalities meshed (while being quite different in many respects) and we respected each other. Taking college prep courses in a small high school (85 in our graduating class) meant that a lot of our classes were together. We competed academically ending up in a dead heat when we shared the valedictorian honor. We had several years in which we debated together as a team quite successfully, even going to the Puget Sound area to enter state wide tournaments. On one trip, I remember we sat in the back seat trying to figure out how to gracefully tell our debate coach that she was driving in second gear and needed to shift to high if we were going to make our out of town destination on time. Jim's success in life was foreseen when our class picked him as the boy most likely to succeed. Only two weeks separate Jim and me in age, a pattern that was closely repeated with our first born sons and then our first born grandsons, clearly indicating to both of us that our friendship was destined to continue. <br /><br />Boy Scouts and skiing were two activities we enjoyed together. Neither of us had any goal of attaining Eagle Scout, but we were eager participants on most outings and the summer 50 milers. We learned to ski together, venturing out on the Pullman golf course at first where we skied cross country on our downhill skis and built jumps to ski off. We graduated to the rope tows at the Moscow Mountain ski area where we could ski all day for 50 cents and if we couldn't talk our parents into driving we could ride the WSU (then WSC) bus for another 50 cents. We experienced our first chair lift together at Chewelah, now 49 degrees north, where our first day was a total failure but a good learning experience. After reveling in how great a time we were going to have on a beautiful winter sunny day, and after having been told that our $5 lift tickets were nonrefundable (and even noticing that there didn't seem to be any people on the slopes), we survived for only one run down the iciest slope either of us had ever been on. We were indeed the only people stupid enough to buy tickets and the chair was shut down shortly after our one run. <br /><br />Skiing was the main activity we shared while together in Cambridge for 3 years (our memories were always of icy slopes there too but we could at least ski them). Shortly after Jim married Margaret, I and my then fiancee and soon to be spouse, Connie Cunningham, first met Margaret at their apartment. Since then we have had countless meals together and became acquainted with and enjoyed each others children on many occasions. <br /><br />Skiing together when we could has been a constant in our lives. Looking back for memories in my high school year book, one of Jim's short and concise notes was &quot;Let's go skiing&quot;, no doubt written in May or June when the usual notes in year books were sentiments like what a great friend you are, etc. We have shared out of town ski trips to Utah and to many places in British Columbia in addition to frequent day trips to Crystal or Stevens Pass. <br /><br />Cycling together is an activity which suffered a long absence after our European trip in 1959. Jim commuted to work frequently by bicycle and I cycled around Mercer Island, sometimes with a child in a seat behind me. After I did my first STP (Seattle to Portland) bike ride in 1995, Jim got a new road bike and we started riding together around Puget Sound and then, after doing the STP together, we did our first distance bike ride in Montana in 1998. Week long trips in Montana and Washington were done in later years, including last year's ride across highway 20, done with some of Jim's UW cycling friends who then continued on to North Dakota. Jim and I were picked up in Newport, Washington by Margaret, and Jim and Margaret were then the first guests to stay with us at our new house on Priest Lake, Idaho. I kept suggesting to Jim that he and Margaret needed to build a retreat somewhere but he always mentioned the friends he had around the country in exciting places where they could visit. <br /><br />It's hard to describe my friendship with Jim, but I do know that I've lost my best and longest friend. Another trait we shared was sarcastic wit, usually at the expense of the other. I don't think Jim ever heard a lawyer joke without gleefully passing it on to me. The aspect I will miss the most, however, is the simple non threatening atmosphere we had when we were together. Our friendship always resumed where we had left off and the measure of time between our get togethers always seemed like yesterday even though it was frequently much longer. I am still struggling with the reality that we will never again enjoy each others company. His memory will be continually at my side.