---
title: Isamu Hirota Professor Emeritus of Kyoto University
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 47
---
> It was with deep sadness that I knew the sudden death of my friend Professor Jim Holton. It was in 1971 when I met him first at Seattle in my way back home to Japan from one-year stay at NCAR. At that tme I gave a seminar talk at the University of Washington, and based on that talk Jim spent 4 pages on my work of vertical propagation of planetary waves, in his excellent monograph &quot;The dynamic meteorology of the stratosphere and mesosphere&quot; published in 1975 from AMS. Indeed this monograph has been the &quot;Bible&quot; of the middle atmosphere dynamics for young scientists in this field for long time all over the world. Professor Holton has visited Japan many times for various occasions. In particular, in the autumn of 1989, I invited him to Kyoto University for his sabbatical leave, so Jim and Margaret enjoyed staying at Kyoto for 3 months, giving a series of lectures to students and having travels to many locations of Japan. The last time he visited us at Kyoto was in March of 2001, when we had the Japan-US Workshop on the coupling of the troposphere and stratosphere. At that time Jim gave a talk, in connection with my retirement from Kyoto University, by recollecting our early studies on the equatorial middle atmosphere in the last three decades. <br /><br />We will always remember him with respect, and will never forget his warm personality for ever. <br />Sayonara, Jim !