---
title: Ngar-Cheung (Gabriel) Lau 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 48
---
> I first met Jim in 1974, when I arrived at UW from Hong Kong as a first-year graduate student. Jim was the faculty advisor for the entire graduate program of the Atmos. Sci. department at that time. I went to his office to discuss what courses I should take during my first semester. Jim administered a diagnostic exam on the spot, to gauge how much I already knew. I did reasonably well in that exam, and Jim gave me complete freedom in picking my favorite courses. So I guess I survived my first encounter with this young star professor in the department alright. <br /><br />I learned most of my atmospheric dynamics from Jim's courses. His lectures were always extremely lucid and well organized. I noticed that, before each lecture, he would insist on dropping whatever that he was doing, so as to spend some quiet time in his office reviewing his lecture notes. I was too timid to bother Jim with too many questions about my research. But I knew that Jim took considerable interest in my thesis work. He frequently talked to Mike Wallace, my thesis advisor, about what I was doing, and offered many perceptive comments and suggestions through Mike. A lot of Jim's input was incorporated in my thesis and the subsequent publications. <br /><br />I actually came to know Jim much better after I left Seattle for Princeton. Whenever he came to GFDL for some meeting or to give a seminar, he would always take the time to look me up at my office and see how I was doing. In one of these visits, my wife Flossie (who has worked closely with Jim as a graduate student, see her accompanying memorial message) and I invited him out to dinner. When he saw the two of us arriving at the Chinese restaurant just by ourselves, with no children in tow, he exclaimed in his characteristic loud voice that was audible in the entire dining room: \`What? Still no bambino?\` It was shortly after that dinner conversation that Flossie and myself started thinking seriously about raising a family. In another visit, I tried to impress Jim by driving him around an affluent Princeton neighborhood. While admiring the stately homesteads, Jim asked me in a facetious tone: <cite ="James Holton">\`Gee, wouldn't it be nice if I become a Princeton professor and get to live in one of these homes?\` I did not wish to disappoint him, but the truth of the matter is even Princeton professors cannot afford these fancy houses. <br /><br />Flossie and myself are deeply shocked and saddened that Jim is no longer physically with us. Somehow I take comfort that I am still teaching a course in Princeton that draws a lot of material from Jim's textbook, and that I still strive to approach scientific problems with the vigor and intensity that Jim had shown me during my student days. By emulating Jim's fine qualities in our professional and personal lives, he will remain to be with us for a much longer time.