---
title: Flossie Hsu
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 49
---
> I met Professor Holton in 1974. Long before I met him, I had read his text book on dynamic meteorology and some of his papers. I was very impressed by how he could explain a complex subject so clearly. In fact, Jim was one of the reasons for my choosing to attend the University of Washington. My other choices were Princeton and UCLA. Some of my friends, who were not familiar with atmospheric sciences, could not understand why I would choose University of Washington over the other universities. To this date, I think it was one of the best decisions I have ever made. <br /><br />I was fortunate enough to have both Jim Holton and Mike Wallace as my Ph.D. thesis advisors. Jim was kind enough to share his stratospheric model with me. He was one of the few professors who wrote his own computer programs and typed the codes using the keypunch himself. His programming style was just like his writing style, very concise and clear. It was quite easy for me to follow his logic and make modifications to his computer programs. Jim was an extremely organized person. His desk was always clean. The only thing on his desk was whatever he was working on at that particular moment. In addition to dynamics, I learned a lot from Jim, including the ability to simplify a complex problem, writing style, programming logic, and organization skills. <br /><br />About two years after I got my Ph.D from the University of Washington, I had an opportunity to interview for a job at Bell Labs. I needed some letters of recommendation to support my application. At first, I hesitated to ask Jim. I thought he would be disappointed at my abandoning atmospheric sciences. On the contrary, he was very supportive. He encouraged me to try a new field and put in some good recommendations for me. I got the job. It was not easy for a meteorologist to compete with the talented computer scientists, engineers, and physicists at Bell Labs. However, I believe that the skills I learned from Jim have helped my career in the telecommunications business. <br /><br />I am eternally grateful to Jim for his encouragement and for what he had taught me. As my husband, Gabriel Lau, mentioned, Jim came to visit us at Princeton several times. We have cherished those fun moments with Jim.