---
title: Pete Dukes 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 51
---
> In Memory of a Dear Friend and Fellow Cyclist <br /><br />Gentleman. Scholar. Friend. Outstanding cyclist. Fit as a fiddle. <br />Quiet. Humble. Personable yet private. Helpful. Kind. Thoughtful. <br />Many varied interests. These are some my memories of Jim Holton. <br />Many of who have lockers in the Northeast corner of the Intramural Actives Center at the University of Washington knew Jim as a friend, colleague, and as a fellow runner and cyclist. And yes, one who was indeed very fit. On February 29, just a few days before Jim’s tragic event, our small group of cycling friends went on our regular Sunday morning ride, this time going a little longer route to Redmond and back. It is about forty-six miles round trip, and there is a tough little 400-foot climb up Hollywood Hill in the middle. And there was Jim, quietly hammering up the hill, leaving me and others behind. He was as strong and fit as ever. Who could have known what would happen two days later. <br />Last September Jim rode for six days with several friends and me, conversing the State of Washington from Anacortes and the Puget Sound to Newport, the Pend Oreille River and Idaho border. What a great time we had. Every day was another mountain pass, and every night we ate until we were stuffed because we knew we actually needed to do so. Beautiful mountain climbs, stunning vistas at many peaks, serene rivers in the valleys, and quiet little towns in north central Washington. I am glad Jim was able to enjoy that unforgettable adventure. As always, Jim was a steady and persistent cyclist, never first, never last, and always just a little faster up the climb than anyone thought he should be. Fit as a fiddle, but quietly so. Jim did not call attention to himself and his incredible fitness nor indeed to his academic achievements or his other exciting adventures. He was just quiet, efficient Jim, enjoying the ride and company of friends. <br />Jim always sat more upright on his bike than I thought he should, but that just made his riding more impressive to me. And to me he always looked too relaxed, that he was going so fast up a climb that he ought to look like he was working a little harder than he appeared. But he would just smile and ride on, clearly very comfortable as he sped on his way. <br />Always the gentleman, Jim would inquire as to what he could do for the group. He arranged for our dining spot in Colville, the night we celebrated my wife’s birthday. He and Dan Hungate hosted our new rider Frank when he showed up to ride on our big day up Rainy and Washington Passes. Jim was always there, ready to do whatever he could to make the ride more pleasant for everyone on the ride. <br />Jim was a true friend. His sudden and totally unexpected death makes all of realize how precious and yet how fragile life is. How very fragile. <br />We miss you, Jim. <br />