---
title: Shigeo Yoden (Kyoto Univ., Japan) 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 52
---
>On 25th in the last week, after an international conference held in Seoul, I had a chance to meet Wookap Choi of Seoul National Univ. to share our memories of Jim in mid 80s. I was a research fellow abroad of the Japan Society for the Promotion of Sciences (JSPS) for the two-year period from 1985 to 87 staying at UW under the supervision of Jim, and Wookap was one of Jim's graduate students during that period. We had a time of reminiscence of Jim as the greatest scientist and mentor in the world. <br /><br />I met Jim first at the International MAP (Middle Atmosphere Program) Symposium held in Kyoto in November 1984, after having my Ph.D. degree and a permanent position in Hirota's Lab. in Kyoto Univ., to ask his supervision during my visit. At that time there were many famous and active Japanese professors in the U.S., but I preferred Jim's supervision because of his style of science which I had learned from his textbooks and papers. The two years were the invaluable period to establish my scientific foundations; I could have learned many things in research and education from Jim and his colleagues. <br /><br />After that, we could have his visit to Kyoto, Japan several times. I also could visit him at UW again for 10 months from 1994 to 95 and a month in 2000. At anytime Jim welcomed me and my family. I remember he showed his wonderful skill in building block toys to my children during the second visit. Jim was a kind and gentle person. In November 1989, I had a time to make a lunch for him and my wife during his stay in Kyoto as a visiting professor of Kyoto Univ. I boiled a bundle of spaghetti, but it was too much for us. Jim had eaten all of the dish without any complaint nor leftover. Only one thing took place after the lunch was that several weeks after Margaret sent us a spaghetti measure with four holes for 1, 2, 3 or 4 people. We imagined humorous (?) conversation between Jim and Margaret on my rough measurement of spaghetti. The spaghetti measure has been very useful until now in our kitchen. <br /><br />I will remember Jim's sincere attitude to science and will follow him all my life. I miss Jim. <br />