---
title: Bob Ingalls 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 59
---
> I first met Jim in Eric Hugh's UW faculty noon-time exercise class during the 1966-7 school year. We progressed from calisthenics to serious running after Cooper's book, "Aerobics," came out. In May 1968, a number of the members, including Jim and I, took advantage of our newly acquired fitness by climbing Mt. Rainier. We later took up the habit of joining other faculty runners for long noon-time runs from the IMA, such as around Green Lake, Golden Gardens, Seattle Center-Queen Ann hill, Lake Washington Blvd, etc. This culminated in our running marathons. My records show Jim, Peter Webster, Ed Curtis, Ted Carpenter and myself completing the Seattle marathon in November 1982. Jim's time was a very respectible 3 hr, 2 min, which is a pace just under 7 min/mi for 26 miles. In June 1986 he and I joined Ulrike and Bill Criminale and Mary Miller, as the High Five relay team and won first place in the co-ed supermaster division, in the Great Falls City to Gasworks relay race. Jim's pace was 6:44 min/mi for nine miles. <br /><br />
It has been my great pleasure and privilege run, hike and ski with Jim for these many years. Favorite outings were to Snow Lake, Sahale Arm, Stevens Pass and many Memorial day hikes-to, and ski-from, Camp Muir. In June 2003 this all finally culminated in our joining Peter Webster and Mike Fritsch for England's Coast to Coast "walk". Jim planned and led the trip with his characteristic thoroughness. I was Jim's roommate at the many B &amp; B's along the way, and marveled how, at the end of each day, he had the patience to keep up the journal of our exploits (even after reluctantly agreeing to put up with a game of bridge first.)<br /><br />
Besides Jim's humanity and easy friendliness there was an underlying grace and elegance in all that he did. I confess to being somewhat envious that he always seemed to have the best equipment and to be so well prepared for whatever outing we attempted. On one occasion we climbed the south route to the Mt. St. Helens crater in rather misty, windy, unpleasant conditions. Well above timberline (I'm not making this up!) we encountered a brass quintet playing music that was out of this world. Although Jim denied responsibility, I have always suspected that he somehow planned it, as well. <br />