---
title: Neil Singer
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 62
---
> Jim Holton was my oldest friend.  I mean that two ways – oldest in age, but more importantly, oldest in terms of the number of years we knew each other.  Jim was the first person I met at Harvard, in September, 1956, on the first day of our freshman year.  There were three of us who were freshman roommates, and we stayed together for our sophomore year, and then we added a fourth for our last two years.<br />	So I lived with Jim for the best part of four years.  We were part of a close and pretty stable group of friends.  We ate most of our meals together, we studied together, we partied together.  At the beginning of our senior year three of us met Radcliffe freshmen whom we would eventually marry.  Jim’s marriage worked out better than the other two, and that was a metaphor for our lives.<br />	After college we all scattered.  We had different majors, and we went to different graduate schools, but all four of us got PhDs and taught in universities.  I didn’t see Jim for a few years after that, but then we reconnected when I was teaching economics at the University of Maryland and he visited Goddard Space Center to plan a satellite launch.  From then on, we got together every couple of years, usually when he and Margaret were in Washington for a meeting at Goddard or, later, at the National Academy.  There were a few times when I saw them here, in Seattle.<br />	When you know somebody for a lifetime, or most of it, you expect to see some change.  With Jim, the most dramatic change that I noticed over the span of nearly fifty years was the way he wore his hair.  In college he had a crew cut, as many of us did; a few years later he let it grow out.<br />	In everything else, he was the same man for his whole life that he was as a college student.  He wore the same glasses, he never put on weight, he kept his hair and his active life style and the Western drawl in his speech.  From his first day at Harvard he knew he was going to be a scientist, that he would major in physics and make it his life’s work.  From the day he met Margaret it was obvious they would spend their lives together.  He was so well-grounded, so clear about who he was and what was important to him.  He was a model that few of us were able to emulate.<br />	It’s no accident that, of a group of friends who were all smart and in some cases brilliant, Jim had the most successful career.  The list of his honors and accomplishments far outstrips what any of the rest of us could muster.  But those achievements reflected Jim, they didn’t define him.<br />	I won’t miss the man who earned the academic honors.  I won’t miss the department chairman.  I’ll miss the honest, loyal, straightforward, good man I knew for my entire adult life.  I’ll miss my oldest friend.<br />