---
title: Mike Wallace 
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 64
---
> I must have met Jim for the first time while we were graduate students together at M.I.T., but I have no memory of it.  Jim was a year and half older and he was already married, so we had largely different groups of classmates and friends.<br />	I arrived at the University of Washington in September, 1966, a year after than Jim.  By the time I arrived, Jim was already an influential member of the faculty and he and Margaret were proud parents.  One of Susie's and my first social invitations, as a married couple, was dinner at Jim and Margaret's house.  That was the start of a long family friendship that continues to this day.  We've changed diapers together, gone on camping trips together, celebrated holidays, picked blackberries, shared good times and endured bad times enjoying their company and relying on each others' support.  With me, he shared his scientific avocation and a love of the outdoors.  With Susie, he shared left handedness, a tendency toward motion sickness, and a love of books.&#160;<br />	I remember my first business trip, flying with Jim to San Francisco for the 1966 or 1967 Winter AGU meeting.  Susie had never stayed along before in our tiny apartment on Queen Anne Hill.  So she contrived to have Margaret invite her to stay with her and Eric.  As it turned out, Margaret and Eric were immobilized with stomach flu the night Susie was there so she ended up doing bucket duty.  It was one of those &quot;bonding experiences.&quot;<br />	Soon after my arrival in the department.  Jim appeared at the door of my office, inviting me to join him in what turned out to be our first of a number of scientific collaborations.  He had taken the trouble to read at least parts of my Ph.D. thesis, and was intrigued with my speculation that the quasi-biennial oscillation (QB0), a curious two year cycle in winds in the equatorial stratosphere co-discovered by Dick Reed in 1960, was forced by disturbances in high latitudes.  Jim proposed that we tested this idea by building a numerical model and designing a set of experiments designed to simulate the QBO.    I had never done any numerical modeling before and wasn't at all sure that I was cut out for that kind of work.  Jim assured me that there was nothing to it.  He knew exactly what equations we needed to use and was sure we could get the model up and running within a matter of months.  My job would be to work with him in designing the experiments and interpreting the results.  By the end of the year we would hopefully be able to substantiate the hypothesis that I had proposed in my thesis.<br />	Jim lived up to his part of the bargain. Within a few months we had a thick deck of punch cards, meticulously coded in Fortran, that produced pages and pages of contour plots consisting of printed characters separated by blank spaces.  Over the course of the project we must have consumed enough paper to fill a dumpster.  My part of the project didn't turn out quite as we had anticipated:  try as we might, we couldn't produce contour plots that looked anything like Dick Reed's famous hand drawn diagrams.   We decided to write up the results anyway, concluding that the hypothesis in my Ph.D. thesis was wrong, and that the true cause of the QBO had to involve some kind of hitherto unknown disturbances in the winds right over the equator.  Jim insisted that my name go first.  I still don't know whether it was entirely out of generosity.  In any event, the paper was accepted, and no sooner than we had sent it off, the phantom disturbances emerged, right under our noses.<br />	My first Ph.D. student, Vern Kousky, had been making a series of diagrams, showing how the winds at Canton Island, a station at 3 degrees s where weather balloons were launched on a day to day basis.  Kousky plotted the soundings by hand and stood over one of Dick Reed's light tables, drawing contours to illustrate the changes from day to day.  When Kousky plotted the east-west component of the wind, he obtained patterns pleasing enough to make a mural for a shower curtain out of, but the corresponding patterns for the north-south component of the wind were featureless. Puzzled by these results, Vern and I decided it was time to consult with colleagues.  I wasn't at all sure that Jim, being a modeler, would be all that interested in Kousky's hand drawn plots of raw data, but on the contrary, he was really excited when he saw them.  He had just read a draft of a new theoretical paper by Dick Lindzen on equatorial waves in which he leading mode looked just like Kousky's contour plot.  Lindzen had initially dismissed this mode as unphysical, but Jim immediately realized that these so-called &quot;equatorial Kelvin waves&quot; were real, and that they might be the phantom disturbances that were evidently responsible for the QBO.  Jim also pointed out two related Japanese papers that have proven to be of major significance.  One was a theoretical paper by a young theoretician named Taroh Matsuno at Tokyo University, identifying the equatorial Kelvin wave and other kinds of equatorial waves.  The other paper was an observational study by Michio Yanai and one of his graduate students pointing out the existence of another member of the family of equatorial waves that Matsuno and Lindzen had identified.  We were fortunate enough to have both Dick Lindzen and Taroh Matsuno visit our department soon afterwards.<br />	It was during Lindzen's visit that Dick and Jim hit upon a plausible dynamical mechanism for the QBO involving both Kousky's and Yanai's waves in an intricate system of controls and feedbacks quite unlike anything that had previously appeared in the atmospheric literature.  Not everyone in the community immediately embraced their explanation.  I remember a lunch at our Faculty Club in which the famous climatologist, Helmut Landsberg,  sitting across the table from Jim, dismissed their work as the ramblings of theoreticians.  I don't think Landsberg realized, at the time, who he was talking to. Jim managed to keep a straight face and let Landsberg's comment pass without comment, though we shared a laugh about it later.  Twenty years later, the Lindzen and Holton mechanism still stands, and it has been corroborated  by laboratory experiments of Alan Plumb.    Taroh Matsuno's visit resulted in his landmark paper on midwinter stratospheric warmings, which laid the groundwork for later work on Jim with Cliff Mass on the interaction between planetary waves and the wintertime polar vortex.<br />	We didn't spend all our time back in those days doing science.  I remember climbing Mt. Pugh with Jim, Vern Kousky and a group of friends in the department. I remember a dinner party with Taroh Matsuno and his wife, Masako, at which their five year old son,  Syun-Ichi performed the miraculous feat of climbing up the inside of a door jamb, barefoot.  Soon afterward, Eric Holton ascended to the top of the other door jamb in similar fashion.  At an evening barbecue, Dick Lindzen pronounced my homemade wine as fit only for washing rust off bicycles, and he was right.  September hikes were an annual event, usually at Jim's instigation.  One of those years, he introduced me to overnight camping in the Enchantment Lakes.  Though short, it was one of the most beautiful trips I've ever taken.  Jim was always the best of company on hikes.  Conversations ranged from science to university politics, to literature, to stories about people and events, full of wry humor and reflections on life and the state of the world.  Though he cold have walked much faster than I did, Jim always let me set the pace.<br />	Jim was an unabashed anglophile and he was blessed with that quick wit and repartee that characterizes well educated &quot;Brits&quot;.  Over the years, Susie and I have enjoyed attending many live plays with him and Margaret, many of them based on the lives and times of the British upper class.  George Bernard Shaw, Gilbert and Sullivan; the Beatles, Monte Python, were all a part of Jim's repertoire.  Being much more imbued in the culture and faster at processing information, he picked up many of the jokes that I missed.  At times, one would almost think he was British.  I remember the night of our unsuccessful assault on Mt. Baker when Jim and Dennis Hartmann's tent, which was right net to Susie's and mine, partially collapsed due to the wind.  Jim, who was having trouble sleeping, exclaimed that he &quot;was feeling a bit peckish&quot; and began rummaging through his knapsack to find something to eat.  On one of our department hikes, the new crop of graduate students had evidently been very impressed with Jim's quick wit and his cultural breadth.  In the car on the way back to Seattle, they were speculating on where various faculty members hailed from.  They were sure that Jim must have grown up in a big city, whereas, I must have grown up in the country.  I was naive enough at the time to take that as a compliment, and took some delight in telling them that Jim was born in a town in eastern Washington, while I was born in New York City.<br />	In the nearly 40 years in which I knew Jim it seems as though he hardly changed, either physically or with respect to his outlook on life.  In recent years, he was just as supportive of younger faculty in the department as he was when I first arrived, and just as excited about science. In the week before he died we enjoyed several animated conversations about equatorial waves.  In all respects, Jim was still very much &quot;in his prime&quot; and that's the way I will always remember him.