---
title: Pablo Canziani
tags: ['Memory']
memoryOrder: 66
---
> Dear Jim, <br /><br />We are certain that you are watching us comfortably from some corner of the sky, smiling at us. I am certain too that God has already revealed to you all the secrets of Kelvin waves, the QBO, the ozone hole, climate change, etc, which you so diligently strove to understand and explain down here.<br /><br />My relationship with Jim, started, unknown to him, at the age of 12, when my father bought the first edition of An Introductiom to Dynamic Meteorology. For some reason I am still unable to figure out why I fell in love with the book. I certainly could not understand the mathematics involved but there was something about the text, the way it was written, the figures that made leafing through the book a nice experience. I went on to study Physics, thinking of going into the field of Nuclear Physics. However I slowly drifted into Geophysics and Aeronomy.  After completing my PhD. back in 1991, I decided I wanted to do a post-doc outside my country, Argentina, and thus started writing to various research groups in the US and Europe. In those pre-www days somehow I stumbled upon Jim&#180;s address, most probably through an EOS ad, and I decided to give it a try. I really did not expect to get a reply from such an important, famous person, yet in a few weeks I received an extremely kind letter from Jim, suggesting that yes there was a possibility of offering a post-doc and that he considered that I should apply. So I sent all the requested information and the grant was given, to work in Jim&#180;s UARS science team. With my family we went to Seattle in September 1992. I was waiting in awe for the first personal meeting with such a well known and most probably distant, aloof scientist, when the door opened and a thin man, with large glasses and a very large, candid and contagious grin opened the door of the office and invited me in. There he was as simple and kind a person as you could wish, the total opposite of what I had come to expect for someone as well-known: a true gentleman. Both Jim and Margaret immediately made us feel at home, something particularly important for my wife Mercedes, who had never live abroad before. <br /><br />I want to share with you some images and memories I have kept of Jim. I remember his very special sense of humor and the patience and interest with which he would hear the things we had to discuss or talk with him during work or leisure. I was given an office at the so-called Climate Palace of JISAO, by the Burke-Gilman trail, where Jim would cycle every day, from his home to the office and back. He was there with his oversize helmet and his backpack, in sun or rain. More than once, late in the evening, in his way back home he would stop by my office window and signal me to stop work and go home, to take care of my family.  I remember him in summer with the birkenstocks, thick socks and the tight fitting kaki shorts and shirt, which made him look like an overgrown boy scout. I remember the clarity of his talks and conferences. I remember the almost perfect companionship and human warmth he managed to establish within the research group, which was certainly the best period of my whole career as a scientist and set the example to follow. Together with Mike Wallace and Conway Leovy, the other two musketeers, he created the most exquisite working and human atmosphere possible.<br /><br />I also remember him teaching in Buenos Aires to a group of Latin American scientists, back in 1998, and how he encouraged them to work despite the odds faced in their countries. I remember touring with Jim, Margaret and my family around Buenos Aires and his honest and enthusiastic interest and surprise at the things he saw and learned. I remember him, dancing with Joan Alexander his own lanky brand of Tango during the SPARC Conference in Mar del Plata in 2000. I remember his sound advice and interest in the work being done when I directed my first PhD student.<br /><br />Many people here at the Universidad de Buenos Aires were touched by his magic and want to join in this memorial as well to thank him for everything he did and was, is, as a human being.<br /><br />Jim: I have a debt of honour with you. You changed my career and gave me a new perspective about research in science and more specially showed me better ways to establish and run a group of people working together. I am grateful for the support and the help you gave, together with Margaret, to my family during those years in Seattle. I am grateful for the support you gave me to re-establish myself in Argentina, so as to start a new research group there. I am specially grateful for your friendship. You were a great scientist, but above you will always be a great guy!!!<br /><br />An Argentine poet once wrote: Death is but a lie for those that have accomplished a beautiful life...<br /><br />Thanks Jim, <br />Thanks Margaret because you are part of it all!<br /><br />Pablo and Mercedes Canziani.<br />